About
=====

The Wireless Testbed Academy contains source code that can be run on open wireless experimental testbeds. The following open experimentation/testing facilities are supported:
* iMinds [w-iLab.t](http://doc.ilabt.iminds.be/ilabt-documentation/wilabfacility.html)
* TUB [TWIST](http://www.twist.tu-berlin.de/wiki)
* TCD IRIS
* TUD
* JSI [LOG-a-TEC](http://log-a-tec.eu/overview.html)


Experiment description
======================
The channel gain experiment shows how the gain between a transceiver and a receiver can be measured on a real testbed such as the ones mentioned above. Simple cognitive radio source code

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
##Methodology for measuring the gain between two nodes


We consider a system formed by a single transmitter-receiver pair: TXi - RXj

    
        	+------+          +------+
			| TXi  | --hij--> | RXj  |
			+------+          +------+ 
			   |		         |
               |                 |
              _|_               _|_
              
         Fig. 1 hij - the channel gain between
                      transmitter i and receiver j

The procedure for measuring the channel gain is as follows:
* First, the receiver RXj measures the received power Pnoise
knowing that the transmitter TXi is silent. 
* Secondly, the receiver measures the received power PRXj knowing that the transmitter is transmiting with a given power PTXi
* The gain is then computed according to the formula: 

          hij = (PRXj - Pnoise) / (PTXi) where:

                                - PRXj [W] is the power received at receiver j
                                - PTXi [W] is the power transmitted by transmitter i
                                - Pnoise [W] is the noise power.

         +------+                          +------+
         | TXi  | ----------hij----------> | RXj  |
         +------+                          +------+ 

         Fig.2 Ideal situation, where in the system there is no noise power

                        hij = PRXj / PTXi



         +------+                   +-----+        +------+
         | TXi  | ----------hij-----| ADD |------> | RXj  |
         +------+                   +-----+        +------+ 
                                       ^
                                       |
                                       |
                                   +-------+
                                   | noise |
                                   +-------+

        Fig.3 Real situation, where the noise signal adds to the transmitted signal

                        hij = (PRXj - Pnoise) / (PTXi)

# Steps to follow in order to measure the gain between two nodes:


1. Measure the noise power. No signal should be generated by the transmitter during this step.
1. Generate a signal.
1. Measure the received signal
1. Calculate hij gain

For more details, browse the testbed specific CR code, including the respective README file and comments from the source code.


Other resources
===============
Videos of demos and tutorials on the facilities are available on the project [web site](http://www.crew-project.eu/demos) and on the [Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/FP7ictCREW). 


Acknowledgements
================
This work was partly funded by the EC under grant agreement n°258301 - Cognitive Radio Experimentation World. 
